--- P1 (binary) ---
PartA：根據文意選出最適合的答案，每题1分，共18分。
1. The doctor told my father to quit
-. He has a very bad cough.
(A) spelling
(B) pulling
(C) pushing
(D) smoking
2. If you are having a
and a terrible sore throat, you might have COVID-19.
(B) fever
(C) diet
(A) break
(D) watch
3. My brother is falling
in class. He never gets good grades.
(A) after
(B) behind
(C) under
(D) below
4. A: Will the typhoon hit next week? B: Yes. It's going to be
and rainy for a week.
(B) sunny
(A) windy
(C) snowy
(D) foggy
5. Keep going straight for two
and you will see the bakery on your right.
(A) banks
(B) books
(C) blocks
(D) baskets
6. Lots of kids are playing the seesaw and the
in the playground.
(A) slide
(B) bicycle
(C) sandwich
(D) beach
7. A: What's your address? I want to write you a
(A) glue
(B)mirror
(C) camera
(D) postcard
8. The
 your draw is so round. Mine is like a square.
(A) number
(B) triangle
(C) circle
(D) letter
9. It's already December. Why has it never been cold enough for me to wear a
(C) mask
(B) sweater
(A) skirt
(D) ring
10. Everything on the menu looks so delicious. I want to
all of them.
(B) order
(C) dial
(A) clean
(D) live
1l. A: Do you have the
? B: Yes. It's 10:38.
(B) hour
(A) time
(C) minute
(D) second
12. I don't eat
because I am a vegetarian.
(B) bread
(C) cake
(A) fruit
(D) meat
13. I am having a
- Is it because the food was not fresh?
(C) meeting
(B) concert
(A) stomachache
(D) party
14. I can't be more
! I got the first place in the game!
(A) lazy
(C) excited
(B) kind
(D) friendly
15. My new
are a young couple.
(A) neighbors
(B) stores
(C) departments
(D) clocks
16. Look! There's a car accident. Can anyone call for a(n)
(B) taxi
(A) airplane
(C) train
(D) ambulance
17. You should have your teeth checked by a(n)
at least twice a year.
(A) engineer
(B) dentist
(C) reporter
(D) musician
18. The children can't wait to open all of the
under the Christmas tree.
(A) presents
(B) seasons
(C) hospitals
(D) machines
Part B：根據文意出最適合的答案，每题1分，共12分°
题组一
(B) send
(C) movie
(A) special
(D) hands
Can you imagine being deaf? Talking to people would be really hard if you couldn't hear anything. Some people can talk to deaf
people using their _19_. This is called sign language. But not many people know how to sign.
Now, to help deaf people, someone has made some very _20_ glasses. They let you read what other people are saying! These
glasses are great. They're like watching a _2l_ with subtitles!

--- P2 (binary) ---
The glasses work because of smartphones. Smartphones hear the words people are saying. Then they write the words down, and
_22__ them to the glasses for people to read. Now, all that deaf people need are these new glasses, and they can talk to lots of
people! What a cool idea!
题组二
(A) hungry
(B) plant
(C) delicious
(D) themselves
Do you know what most students at school are thinking about in the morning? Of course, it's lunchtime! Every day, -_23_ students
need to eat. Who makes your lunch? Maybe your family makes it, or maybe the school's cook.
In some elementary schools, children only eat fast food, like hamburgers and French fries. In other schools, students can make lunch
by -_24__, and eat healthy. They are helped by a new program called "Chefs in Schools". The program helps elementary students
_25_ vegetable gardens. The studentstake care of their garden every day.
After lots of sunlight, water, love and care, their vegetables are ready to eat! Students cook them into _26_ meals. They even grow
wheat, and use it to bake bread. It makes the students happy and strong.
题组三
(A) village
(C) popular
(B) perfect
(D) weather
Do you like to eat guava? It's a green fruit that grows on a tree. Guava is _26_ in Taiwan, but people in India also eat it. In fact, an
Indian farmer named Kapil is thankful for Taiwanese guava. This fruit has made his farm successful.
Kapil used to work at a big city bank. When COVID-19 came to India, Kapil lost his job. He had to go home to his family's __27_
He could not find another job, so he decided to grow fruit. Some people said
he couldn't grow fruit, because the __28_ was too dry. But Kapil wanted to try anyway.
He found a company that sold baby guava trees from Taiwan. He learned this kind of fruit tree does not need much water, so it can
grow in dry places. It was the _29_ choice for Kapil. He planted the baby trees and watched them grow. Finally, he harvested the
guava. His fruit was super tasty! He sold the fruit and made a lot of money. Kapil says Taiwan guavas changed his life.
Part C：是非题，True 選(A)，False (B)，每题 2 分，共 30 分
题组一
March 17 is St. Patrick's Day. It is a very special day for Ireland. Ireland is a small country in Europe. Many Americans have
Irish grandparents or great-grandparents. Every year, all over America, Irish Americans like to celebrate St. Patrick's Day with
big parades and fun parties!
At some St. Patrick's Day parties, everything is dyed green! All the food is green, all the drinks are green, and in the city of
Chicago, even the river is green!
New York City has America's biggest St. Patrick's Day parade. The parade has big bands playing traditional folk music. The
New York City St. Patrick's Day event is America's oldest parade. It started 261 years ago! This year they're putting the whole
parade online. For the first time, people all over the world can watch the party and join in!
31. Irish people come from America.
32. New York City dyes its river green for St. Patrick's Day.
33. America's oldest St. Patrick Day parade started in 1762.
34. This year people all over the world can watch New York City St. Patrick's Day parade online.
题组二
January 13 is Public Radio Broadcasting Day. The radio has many programs: music, news, and education. Some radio programs do
an important job in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is a big country in Asia. Recently, that country got a new law. The law says girls can't
go to school.
Girls want to change this law, but for now they must stay home. If they can't go to school, how can they keep learning? The answer

--- P3 (binary) ---
is radio. Some radio stations in Afghanistan now give lessons every day. Students can listen to the radio at home to learn math,
science, and other subjects. Sometimes they read books out loud, to teach reading skills. Girls can even call in to the stations to talk
about their problems.
The women who run the stations say the future of girls is the future of Afghanistan.
Today, on Public Radio Broadcasting Day, let's remember that radio can make a difference.
35. Girls in Afghanistan can't go to school now.
36. Girls in Afghanistan can only keep leaning by watching TV at home.
37. Students in Afghanistan can learn math, science, and reading skills from radio programs.
38. Some radio stations in Afghanistan care about the future of girl students.
题组三
March 3 is World Wildlife Day. Let's talk about a wild animal that lives in a cold, icy place--the emperor penguin. Emperor
We can use a satellite. A satellite flies high in the sky. It can take photos of Earth. Recently, when scientists were looking at satellite
photos of Antarctica, they saw something strange. They saw a little dot on the ice. What was it? They looked closer, and saw the
little dot was actually a big group of
penguins. There were a thousand penguins in the group. They were living on the ice together, catching fish to feed their babies.
The scientists are happy. There are fewer and fewer emperor penguins every year, so it's good news to find more. Now scientists
can study this wildlife, all thanks to the satellite photos!
39. Emperor penguins live in a cold, icy place called Australia.
40. A satellite can take photos of Earth from high above.
41. Scientists found a group of emperor penguins when they went to Antarctica.
42. Finding fewer and fewer emperor penguins makes scientists happy.
题组四
November 8 is Eating Healthy Day. Yes, there is a day for eating healthy! There are lots of ways to eat healthy. Vegetables and
fruits are great. Another good way is to drink less soda. Soda has a lot of sugar.
Fruit juices - like orange juice and apple juice - also have lots and lots of sugar. And sugar is really bad for you. Too much sugar
hurts your body, and it makes you fat. Water is much better for you.
Many places try to make people drink less sugary drinks. How do they do that? By adding a tax. The tax makes the sugary drinks
more expensive. People hate paying more money! Many countries have tried putting a tax on sugary drinks before. Mexico tried it,
there either.
In September, a province in Canada put a tax on sugary drinks. Let's hope it works for them! Maybe Taiwan should put a tax on
sugary drinks too. We all have to try harder to eat healthier.
43. Countries such as Mexico, France, and Taiwan put a tax on sugary drinks.
44. Having too much sugary drinks is bad for your body.
45. Mexican people bought chocolate bars and candy when sodas became more expensive.
Part C：睛聞讀文章亚回答間题，每题4分，共40分°
题组一
Have you ever heard of the phrase, "busy as a bee?" If someone is "busy as a bee", it means he or she is really busy. Bees are busy
of course, bees make honey. That's good for us.
Here's something you probably didn't know about bees. They like to play! Some people at a university in London proved that. They
taught bees to roll small balls. How did the researchers teach the bees to roll little balls? They gave them food when they rolled the
balls.

--- P4 (binary) ---
But the researchers found something else very interesting. They saw the bees playing with balls even when they didn't get food.
Researchers also found that younger bees played with the balls more than
adult bees. That's just like humans! Kids like to play more than their parents, too.
One young bee played with a ball 117 times. Wow!117 times! That bee was having a ball. It really had a good time.
46. What are bees' homes called? (A) Pollen
(B) Honey(C) Hives
(D) Insects
47. Why are bees important to flowers?
(A) They build hives. (B) They make honey. (C) They play with balls. (D) They collect pollen.
48. What is TRUE about young bees?
(A) The like to play more than adults.
(B) They don't like to play much.
(C) They like to play as much as adults do.
(D) They don't know how to play with balls.
49. What does the phrase "having a ball" mean?
(A) Being busy (B) Rolling a ball (C) Having fun (D) Getting food
题组二
India is a huge country. Many people there live in a state called Uttar Pradesh, and lots of those people are Hindu. Today is the start
of an ancient Hindu celebration, called "Holi". It's a festival that's famous for having lots of color. People run around throwing paint
at each other. It's really fun!
Today, lots of Hindus use special eco-friendly paint, so they won't harm the planet. The night before Holi people always light huge
fires. They used to burn wood, which meant they had to cut down lots of trees, but that was so bad for the environment.
It isn't made out of cows! Actually, it's made from their poop. To make cow wood, farmers take some cow poop, shape it into a
brick, and let it dry.
The Uttar Pradesh government wants to have 300 tons of cow wood ready for the huge fires. That's as heavy as 3 blue whales! This
great idea is helping Hindus in Uttar Pradesh be good to the planet and enjoy their famous festival at the same time! Happy eco-
friendly Holi, everybody!
50. What is Holi famous for?
(A) Wood (B) Color (C) Farmers (D) Cows
51. What do people throw at each other during Holi?
(A)Paste (B) Paint (C) Paper (D) Poop
52. What is three hundred tons of cow poop as heavy as?
(A) three blue whales (B) thirteen blue whales
s (C) thirty blue whales
(D) thirty-three blue whales
53. What does the word "eco-friendly'' mean?
(A) Cutting down trees (B) Harming the planet
(C) Lighting huge fires
(D) Good for the environment
题组三
Summers in Taiwan can be very hot! When the sun comes out, everyone feels warm. And sometimes, it's too dry. Isn't there any way
to make it rain?! In the past, we could not change the weather. But scientists have had an idea. They have found a way to make it
rain, using electricity.
We know where rain comes from. It falls from clouds in the sky. Clouds are made of water. When the water gets too heavy, the
clouds start to rain.
Sometimes there is not enough rain. That is not good. When the rain is too little, people have no water to drink, and plants become
too dry. So how can we make it rain more?
Recently, scientists did a test. They used a little robot to zap a cloud with electricity. The electricity made the drops of water stick
together. When the drops of water come together, they get heavier. Then they fall to earth. So when the cloud is zapped with
electricity, it turns into rain.
What a useful idea. Scientists think it can help people. When the weather is too hot or dry, people can use this technology to make
rain. All it takes is a cloud and a little electricity!
54. How can we make clouds rain?
55. When do clouds become rain?
(A) When they get too heavy (B) When they get too light (C) When they get too warm
(D) When they get too dry

--- P5 (binary) ---
Part A：每题1分，共18分。
1. D
2. B
3. B
4.A
5. C
7. D
8. C
9.B
6.A
10. B
12. D
11. A
13. A
14. C
15. A
17. B
16. D
18. A
Part B：每题 1分，共 12分°
19. D
20. A
21. C
22. B
23. A
24. D
25. B
26. C
27. C
28. A
29. D
30. B
Part C：每题2分，共30 分。
32. B
31. B
33. A
34.A
35. A
37. A
38. A
39. B
36. B
40. A
41. B
42. B
43. B
44. A
45.A
Part D每题4分，共40分。
46. C
47. D
48. A
49. C
50. B
51. B
52. A
53. D
54. C
55. A